so at this time we thought it'd be
interesting to take a different approach
and and that is to start and rather than
remaining a blank slate and remaining
skeptical I I'll just believe whatever
I'm told and then I'll let that answer
lead me to the next place so that was
the that was the goals to not just ask
them about it but to take what they say
put it into practice on screen so that
people can see it and um so it's a much
more direct I think way of kind of
sterzing these ideas maybe even than we
did in what as a woman
[Music]
hello everybody I had the opportunity
today to talk to Matt Walsh of what is a
woman Fame many of you are familiar with
that movie where Matt went out as naive
investigator into the world
of of gender ideology to try to answer
the most fundamental question that can
possibly be posed to a human being which
is can you tell the difference between
the Sexes which by the way is something
that creatures without nervous systems
have been able to do for 650 million
years so hopefully the answer on your
side is yes um in any case Matt made
quite a success with that documentary
and he has a new movie Amir racist which
you can access at am icist decom um
maybe that's a question you want to be
asking yourself in any case as you many
of you know unless you live under a rock
the issue of racism has raised its ugly
head in a massive way once again in our
culture since about
2015 mostly because people badly
educated at idiot universities have made
that the center point of their
propagandistic fulmination much to the
decrement of interpersonal relationship
ship across the west and certainly
relationships between the different
ethnicities and racial groups it's
really an appalling thing to see and
Matt has decided to hit the Hornets Nest
once again with this new movie and to
launch himself out into the World As A
diversity equity and inclusivity expert
in search of the answer to the question
that all white people in particular are
supposed to be torturing themselves with
which is am I racist and you know that's
a complicated question actually because
human beings have pronounced ingroup
preferences which is why we like our
families for example and there are some
downsides to that like the fact that
people who are um
less familiar to us are more likely to
receive a more negative response
instinctively and that we have to fight
against that um which I think we were
doing with dramatic success before the
idiot propagandists got bone back in
their jaw and uh in any case Matt's
launching this movie and we talked a lot
about the movie am I a racist and we
also talked about Matt's um conservative
ethos right his and how did those two
things tie
together well people are beating the
anti-racist drum I suppose because
they're looking for meaning in their
life that's part of the reason to the
degree that just not exploiting the
situation and we talked about sources of
deep meaning and for Matt and for myself
the meanings in our life have really
come from our dedication to our wives
and our families our kids and our
grandkids and in my case um because I'm
older than Matt and so we talked a lot
about sources of true meaning and false
meaning and so you can join us for that
um am icis.com that's the URL you want
to keep in mind join us hello Mr Walsh I
hear you have a movie coming up do you
want to tell everybody what it is and
when it's breaking and all of that uh
yeah we do we have a movies coming out
September 13th miir racist is uh is the
title and tickets are on pre-sale right
now we just uh we opened up pre pre-sale
about a week ago it's already going you
know really well on the on the pre-sale
for the tickets uh which is important
because that you know determines in
large part how many theaters actually
show the movie so uh people are
responding in a big way and uh and I'm
excited about it am I racist September
13th well I I suppose we could cut right
to right to the punchline we'll start
with you are you
racist well that's uh that feels like a
a spoiler I guess I mean look one thing
we learn in the movie is that is you
know I'm white so I guess the answer is
yes you know that's that's uh that is
how they Define racism on the
anti-racist side that if you're white
you're inherently racist and if you're
not then you're not racist no matter
what you say you're do
so from their perspective the answer is
yes and it's actually uh it's it's you
know unlike what is a woman the first
movie that we made obviously that's a
that was a question that they didn't
want to answer it was hard for them to
answer uh this is this for them is an
easy question to answer now if you were
to follow up and say well what exactly
do you mean by racism what what is
racism exactly then that becomes a more
difficult question but they have no
problem pointing to the people who they
consider racist and really it's just a
matter of looking at your skin color and
deciding from there all right so maybe
we could try this maybe I could try to
give a case from a psychological
perspective for the leftest claims and
we could take them apart that way and I
think it is see it's a hard conversation
to delve into because I don't exactly
think this is properly
characterized as a leftist claim it's
partly that but it's also a partly a
claim of devious manipulative
Psychopathic narcissists and that's not
exactly the same as a political or an
intellectual claim you know just like on
the religious front the religious claims
of of great monotheistic systems are
often hijacked by Bad actors and
manipulators that that's the Pharisees
in the gospel accounts you see the same
thing on the political side but let's
delve into this a little bit because
there's there's plenty be said about the
idea of well we could start with
implicit
bias so that's something that the
scientific
Community centered at Harvard around
masin Boni and her work on the implicit
association test that idea of implicit
bias is something that the scientific
Community the scientific Community has
offered to the radicals to butress their
claims so maybe we could delve into that
a little bit because people need to
understand this does that is that
reasonable as far as you're concerned
yeah I think so yeah okay so your
perceptions all of our perceptions are
biased and they're biased towards our
goals so when you look at the world
basically what you see is a pathway
forward to a goal that you're pursuing
and then you see the things in the world
that will either help you along that
path way or or get in your way
everything else is turned into
irrelevance and obviously when we look
at the world we don't see most of it
right we see what what's right in front
of us for example but even more
specifically we see a pathway to a goal
and things that move us towards that and
things that get in the way and that
could be friends and foes for example so
your your goals do determine your
perceptions in
large in large uh in large in a large in
a large manner now there's exceptions to
that if something unexpected happens
because if something unexpected happens
and it stops you from moving forward
that will attract your attention and
you'll turn to investigate it but that's
basically the perceptual landscape and
one of the implications of that is that
we do live inside something that if it's
described seems like a story rather than
a set of facts okay so this has been
more or less understood for something
approximating 100 years because the cych
analytic types like Freud and then Yung
kind of coton on to this first that we
live we have a perceptual structure that
filters the world when we interact with
it now the social psychologists got a
hold of that and they built a test that
purported to measure implicit bias and
they showed they said they showed that
the the research is unclear and at best
it's speculative and um and theoretical
they purported to show that we had
perceptual biases that favored our
ingroups and that's not really that
surprising as far as I'm concerned
because you know you
obviously have
a inbuilt preference to care for
yourself and then you have an inbuilt
preference to care for your mother and
your father and your siblings and you
have a kin preference and then you
probably have something like a tribal
preference and then you probably have a
race preference in so far at least in so
far as other race people are somewhat
novel and so on that edifice was built
up the notion of implicit bias and of
course the Dei types grabbed the
implicit bias literature and ran with it
it was a gift and a godsent to the HR
types the Karens in the HR world who
could then point to Scientific
validation and now the maserin Boni of
Yale of of Harvard um her colleagues who
helped invent the implicit Association
test most of them have backed off with
regards to its political implications
but Dr Boni who's really quite a leftist
right down to the core like most social
psychologist is still beating the
implicit bias drum okay sorry for the
lengthy explanation but you can see that
the thorniness of the problem and that's
an important thing to attend to because
the claim that we have as human beings
that we have a bias towards those who
are closer to us depending on the
dimension of evaluation appears to be
true and I'll just close with two things
and then please like push on me um
that's implicit or unconscious bias it's
it's before you perceive that doesn't
mean that can't be overcome by learning
in fact much of what learning does is
modify your implicit
biases right because you you have to see
something a particular way when you
first perceive it but you can learn to
differentiate your perception and to
become more sophisticated that's what
socialization is for and that's what
education was for is for but also
there's no reason to presume whatsoever
on the implicit bias front that it
doesn't characterize all ethnicities and
racial groups
equally so well so I'm kind of curious
about what you think about all that it's
complicated you know the idea that we
look at the world through a motivated
framework that that's a real challenge
to the enlightenment view of rationality
and I'm afraid that the enlightenment
rationalists were they or the
empiricists in particular who thought
that we derived all of our conceptions
from sense data that's not true it's
wrong yeah well I think I mean I I don't
think I would disagree with anything
that you said but with with maybe
perhaps the exception of uh you know you
said that we've known this for the last
hundred years or so I I I would argue
we've probably known most of this for as
long as human beings have been
self-aware because uh mean just the
basic idea that we all are biased and
we're all moving through the world in a
you know in a way that we we we aren't
seeing things like exactly objectively
like robots I think that of course of
course that's the case um and we all
have our own like priorities and
preferences and motivations and goals
and everything and you carry that with
you and and you bring that into every
interaction and W with with with
everybody and and into every situation
in your life um now as far as that
extends to even racial bi biases I mean
uh I I think I think history proves that
there's that that that is often the case
also the problem is
that on the kind of quotequote
anti-racist Dei side of this um the
issue for them is that well there a
couple of things the big
one is that they would probably also
agree with a lot of what you just said
and even they would say that it kind of
vindicates their point of view they
would listen to that and say see is what
we're talking about except that for them
that applies to white people only and if
if you were to say well no this is just
the Human Condition this everybody is
this way uh they wouldn't they wouldn't
track you that far they wouldn't they
wouldn't go that far they can't go that
far so that that's really the problem to
to me that's the
the essential problem with the whole
implicit bias
conversation right now and I might have
been different 50 years ago but right
now the problem with it is that when we
talk about implicit bias we're only
talking about it with one group and
we're not engaging with it as a um as a
fact of human nature but instead as a
fact of like white human nature which
which which these people see as
something completely distinct and
different from I guess the nature of all
other people who are not white and then
the second problem with the way that
they approach the issue is that they see
it as something that they have to fix um
which I think is an issue in and of
itself because I don't think that it's
something they need to fix yeah and then
all of their prescription all of their
prescriptions for fixing it are
completely wrong so there might be a a
kind of a a starting point here where
there's some truth in the starting point
but then it just falls apart as you
continue along I'm taking four of my
esteemed colleagues and you across the
world oh wow this is amazing to
ReDiscover the ways our ancient
ancestors developed the ideas that
shaped modern society it was a monument
to Civic greatness to visit the places
where history was made that is ash from
the actual fires when the Babylonians
burn Jerusalem from
2500 years ago to walk the same roads We
are following the path of the
crucifixion and experience the same
Wonder
[Music]
we are on the site of a
miracle what kind of resources can human
beings bring to a mysterious but
knowable
Universe science art politics all that
makes life
[Music]
wonderful and something new about the
world is
revealed Okay so let's delve into that a
little bit more so um on the you said
that this has been known you know in
some ways since the dawn of time and the
idea that people have motivations and
goals and that they affect their
perceptions that's key to the
whole to the whole universe of
Storytelling right because when you tell
a story this is actually the definition
of a story is you a story is actually a
description of the framework through
which someone sees the world so when you
go to a movie what the Movie Maker shows
you are the goals of the protagonist so
in your movie am I a racist and this you
did the same thing in in uh what is a
woman your goal is to conduct an
investigation into something that's key
to the culture war and so we watch you
as you pursue your goals and we can see
the world through your eyes and that's
you're enabling us to do that and the
reason that's so useful is because well
it's useful for for me to see the world
through my own eyes but if I can see the
world through the eyes of another person
then I get the vantage point that they
developed and that they are learning
from without having to take any of the
risks okay so now there is a huge issue
here Matt philosophically underneath all
this because the empiricists and so
they'd be people more on the scientific
front who claim that we derive all our
knowledge of the world from facts and
from objective facts they're wrong and
the post modernists pointed that out now
they weren't the only people that
pointed that out and we really don't
know what to do with the fact that we
see the world through a story because
that's not what the scientists claimed
it's not what the enlightenment types
claimed and they were definitely wrong
and this is a big problem now my
solution to that for what it's worth is
that is to observe that we've had
evolved ways of looking at the world
they biologically evolved and culturally
evolved and they expressed themselves in
the form of traditional religious views
but you know we can get into that a
little bit later and if those decline or
or dissolve then you have the emergence
of these terrible ideologies so okay so
the the implicit bias types and the
postmodernists have a point we do see
the world through a story okay now
here's
a here's an explanation of why it's only
white people that are racist from the
radical leftist perspective that's where
I see the Marxism creeping in so what
happened when the in the 1970s the the
postmodernist types Dara and Fuko and so
forth Fuko is the world's most cited
scholar by the way the world's most
cited scholar more than
Darwin so um the postmodernists climbed
in bed with the marxists almost all the
postmodernists were marxists to begin
with like radically leftist there's no
doubt about this on the historical side
and then Marxism took a vicious hit on
the moral side in the 1970s not least
because of Soulja niton who' exposed all
the catastrophes of the stalinist system
and then the postmodernists the French
in particular they they played a slight
of hand game and they transformed
Marxism into a multi-dimensional power
game so for Marx the axis of Oppression
was
economic and I think if you had to make
a case for an axis of Oppression the
strongest case you could make is
economic but the the new Marxist types
the the type that we see now as the
leftist radical they multiplied that so
virtually every dimension of comparison
that you could use to categorize human
beings became an axis of Oppression
right so race ethnicity sex height looks
ability you name it if it distinguished
people it was an axis of Oppression it
was like a met metastasized Marxism and
because in principle
white people are at the top of the
oppression hierarchy they're the only
ones that can be the oppressor and then
so this is where this is the real toxic
element of the narrative as far as I'm
concerned that victim victimizer
narrative it's also empirically
Preposterous because it's actually the
case that first of all white people
defending on how you define white aren't
at the top of the economic hierarchy in
the United States the wealthiest people
are Indian Americans from the continent
of India for example and Asians of of
All Sorts do spectacularly well in the
American economy as do
Nigerians um black women do pretty well
as it turns out and uh Asian women do
quite spectacularly well and of course
there's the everpresent
uh fact that Jews do disproportionately
well too and so it isn't even obvious
that white people are at the top of the
economic hierarchy but the reason that
the radicals insist that racism is only
a white problem is because of this
Marxism that's crept into the stew and
so well I'm curious about what you think
about that yeah well I think right the
uh the the victim hierarchy on the left
is is what this comes down to and I
think what you just pointed out uh and
this is a big problem for the leftists
that I I they've never come up with
anything approaching a satisfactory
answer for it but the fact that white
people are supposedly at the top of the
pile the top of the Heap as it was put
to me by someone in the film um but
Asians are actually above white people
uh the fact that that what you alluded
to that uh African
immigrants do by almost every measure
significantly better in this country
than black Americans who have lived here
for multiple Generations that fact alone
is that that completely destroys their
entire narrative because you would think
that uh if the hierarchy and the the
victim axis work the way they said then
you would think that you know black
immigrants would be would be the worse
off because they not only are they black
but also they're immigrants which are
supposedly oppressed as well that's not
the case and it that's an easy thing to
explain by the way because when you look
at all of the groups that that do pretty
well in this country and then you
compare that with their uh with their
marriage rates and their divorce rates
you you like there's a the math is
pretty simple here a Asians do well they
also get married and stay married um you
know uh African immigrants get married
and stay married um white people
do you know our divorce rates are not
great uh out of woodlock birth rates for
whites are going up and uh whites also
are are going down are traveling down
the other way and becoming less
successful in comparison to the these
other groups so to me it's um there are
probably many factors that explain why
these various groups uh perform well but
that's that's the number one and uh if
there's an exception to this I'm not
sure I mean is is there an example of a
of a demographic group that has Sky High
divorce rates Skyhigh out of wedlock
birth rates but also performs pretty
well
economically uh I I can't think of an
except exception well there there's an
interesting um example on the Asian side
so if you bring say um
uh first generation Asians do
comparatively well in the United States
and their children do better than
Americans do but if Asians are in the
country for three generations then their
performance declines to the point of the
average American so there's obviously
something cultural going on and it's
hard to specify exactly what's going on
in the cultures of the
Immigrant people who do well but you can
speculate at least probably with
particular accuracy on the Asian side
that there's a tremendous emphasis on
getting the hell out there and working
yourself half to death because your
parents took the risk of their life by
immigrating and you better get your act
together and
succeed and so there's a kind of
desperation I think that drives the
success of the Immigrant groups that
you're describing and why that isn't
present in our
culture well that's a that's a hard
question too we don't exactly know what
drives people to be
conscientious you know and
conscientiousness is the big personality
predictor of long-term success and
conscientious people are diligent and
orderly and industrious more importantly
I would say they probably are good at
foregoing immediate gratification and
planning for not only for the long term
but also sacrificing themselves for the
good of other people you know if you're
married for example you want to make
your marriage work it can't be all about
you and it the same applies to your wife
both of you have to prioritize the
marriage over either of your immediate
short-term needs and you really have to
do that with kids even more which is why
I don't think people ever grow up till
they have kids because I don't think you
can grow up till someone is more
important than you are and that doesn't
happen to most people until they have
children and then it's well it's kind of
self-evident at that point and so we
don't exactly know what it's what's
necessary in a culture to instantiate
that ethos of self-sacrifice and
conscientiousness but it does seem to be
the case that it's more prevalent among
the Immigrant communities that do
particularly well would you say this uh
the the issue I just raised with the
marriage rates intact
Families how much do you think that that
plays into it even even like that that's
a big part of of raising kids to be
conscientious is they have to I would
think have a mother and father in the
home who are focused on you know
instilling that in them and uh in in the
in the in the black community you know
the rates of fatherless out of wedlock
births are like 70 80% especially in the
inner city it's just that this is this
catastrophic like apocalyptic type
numbers you can't have a functioning
Community or a functioning society when
the numbers are that high
did you know there's nearly $1 trillion
of infrastructure and pandemic funds yet
to be spent that's right there's a whole
heap of money that the lame duck
Administration is pushing hard to spend
in their last few months if the
president is able to push these funds
out we can see another prolonged
inflation surge just like we saw during
Co and I'm sure you remember the
terrible effects that high prices had on
most Americans but there is hope a
surgent price can be beaten a gold Ira
from Birch gold group is the ultimate
inflation Hedge for your savings in
uncertain times to see how to protect
your IRA or 401K get your free info kit
on Gold by texting the word Jordan to 98
9898 and there's more good news due to
enormous demand Birch gold is offering
the 24 Karat goldplated truth bomb on
qualifying purchases for one more month
but you need to text Jordan to 9898 98
to claim your eligibility before
September 30th don't wait for the
president's spending spree to tank the
dollar further protect your financial
future with gold text Jordan to the
number 98898 to claim your eligibility
and make your purchase before September
30th that's Jordan to 9989
today yeah well there we don't know the
relationship between fatherlessness
let's say in conscientiousness and
that's a study that should clearly be
done but we do know that we do know
probably more accurately than we know
anything else in the developmental
psychological literature that
fatherlessness is a
catastrophe fatherless kids do abysmally
well here's an example M this is so
striking everyone listen should take
this with with a tremendous amount of
seriousness fatherless girls undergo
puberty on average more than one year
earlier now that's a walloping
biological effect and an early one and
the life expectancy of fatherless
children is lower as well and that's
because they undergo chromosomal damage
because of stress so right at the
biological level there are massive
consequences of fatherlessness and
probably you know having a father is an
example of long your father if he sticks
around provides an example of longterm
other focused commitment across all the
ups and downs of life right if you have
a father who hangs in there if your
parents are honest you see them
contending with each other wrestling
with each other fighting with each other
as they try to sort out the complex
problems of life there's lots of
tragedies that a married couple goes
through lots of difficulties and the
example of committed monogamy shows
people that it's possible to make a
voluntary Bond a contract or a covenant
that extends across decades regardless
of the difficulties that life throws
your way and you commented on the
accelerating rates of fatherlessness in
the black community and that is a
complete bloody catastrophe and here's I
think the explanation for it Matt you
tell me what you think about this
so imagine a pyramidal structure that
represents economic position in the
patriarchy let's let's put it that way
okay now imagine that you you stress the
system and one of the ways you could
stress it is by defining the family unit
as the fundamental basis of Oppression
and that all other family arrangements
are fine and that it's okay to love
whoever you want for as long as you want
or for a short as you want like let's
say the next hour and that's perfectly
acceptable and then you throw that into
the culture which is what we did in the
early 1960s and then you might ask well
who is that going to destabilize first
and the answer to that's crystal clear
the lower you are on the socioeconomic
ladder the more catastrophic the results
of a sociological intervention like that
are likely to be and so the black
community tended to be at the lower end
of the pyramidal distribution and so
that radical sociological change that
emerged in the 1960s affected them first
and black families started to fall apart
in the 60s and that's been accelerating
ever since until we get the numbers that
you are pointing to but one of the
things we should absolutely 100% be
clear about is that Hispanics and
Caucasians are not far behind if you so
there has been a decline in marital
stability in the white and the Hispanic
Community since the 60s and if you match
the curves the Hispanics and the whites
are about 10 to 15 years behind the
black community so that cataclysmic
collapse is starting to spread through
our entire culture it's just that the
black population happens to be at the
Forefront of it and we know perfectly
well that fatherlessness apart from the
biological effects early puberty for
girls why do girls hit puberty early if
they don't have a farther around well
how about so they become sexually
attractive earlier so that a man shows
up how about that for a theory which
seems to be precisely the explanation
and so that's not exactly so good
because probably it's not that good to
throw yourself into a sexual
relationship when you're still
psychologically a child despite the fact
that you might be physically mature so
that's quite the catastrophe and
fatherless boys are much more likely to
be in prison they're much more likely to
drop out of school they're much less
likely to attain gainful employment
they're much less likely to be reliable
marital partners and so it's a cascading
effect it's a complete bloody
catastrophe and even the conservatives
have been stupid about this you know I
talked to a conservative leader the
other day um and I asked him about
families and he said well you know as
long as two people love each other and I
think no I don't think so not just as
long as two people love each
other love each other what does that
mean love
without commitment you mean does it mean
love for tonight does it mean sexual
desire or does it mean that you're going
to commit to someone for decades for
better for worse like what does love
exactly mean here and then you know is
there a model for love other than
monogamous child- centered long-term
committed family it's like well does can
three people be a family how about five
how about seven swapping sexual partners
how about a man and a man
that's not a model that's going to
duplicate well across Society because
two men have a very difficult time
reproducing case anyone hasn't noticed
and so the the the fatherless
catastrophe is
definitely it's Germain Matt and it's
not an issue that people
are prone to highlight because they
don't want to be hard with the brush of
you know Prejudice and Prejudice and
judgment
they're hard to dissociate from one
another and but I can't see any other
model for long-term long-term viability
of children than stable committed
long-term child- centered heterosexual
monogamous couples and people can go to
hell in a hand basket as far as I'm
concerned whatever way they want but
we're bloody fools if we think there's
any ideal at the center of a culture
that can replace that and I think the
evidence for that is everywhere as you
already pointed out yeah I think people
uh well the fact that we're not talking
about it just means that no real
improvements can be made culturally
because this is the to my mind the the
first issue that has to be addressed and
if we're not going to address it then uh
you can't solve anything else farther
down farther
Downstream um and I think that people
don't want to talk about it because yeah
it's it's not it's not politically
correct it's not sensitive also because
I think we just talked about how
everyone has their own personal bias I
think uh because fatherless rates and
out of woodlock birth rates are so
prevalent now that a lot of the people
who should be having this conversation
don't want to talk about it themselves
because they're a part of that very
problem you know they've abandoned their
kids they've abandoned their marriages
and so they don't want to indict
themselves um I do think just to just to
back up you said
uh you know is it is it enough for two
people to love each other and of course
this is the the common thing we hear on
the left I think that I think the answer
to that is that it is enough for two
people people to love each other as long
as we Define love the right way you know
if we all had the right conception of
love then we we we could it could just
be as simple as that um and if we Define
love I think Thomas Aquin said love is
to will the good of the other uh and you
know in a religious context I what I
would say is that to love is to another
way of putting that is to love someone
is to try to help them get to heaven and
that's my job as a child as a parent I
help my children get to heaven um so if
we Define love that way then uh then yes
in fact that could be the guiding
principle of your life and if you are
trying to will the good of the other at
all times then uh it can rarely steer
you wrong but people don't see it that
way they see it as an emotional
thing when we think about wildly
successful businesses we often focus on
their great products cool branding and
Brilliant marketing but there's an
unsung hero in their success stories the
business behind the business that makes
selling simple for millions of
entrepreneurs that business is Shopify
shop home to the number one checkout on
the planet and here's the not so secret
secret with shop pay they boost
conversions up to 50% that means fewer
abandoned carts and more completed sales
our marketing team uses Shopify every
day to sell our merchandise and we love
how easy it is to add more items ship
products and track conversions in
today's market growth-minded businesses
need a Commerce Solution that's just as
flexible and dynamic as they are whether
your customers are browsing your website
scrolling through social media or
wandering into your store Shopify
ensures you're ready to sell ready to
elevate your business upgrade your
business today and get the same checkout
daily wire uses sign up for your $1 per
month trial period at shopify.com jbp
all lowercase go to shopify.com jbp
today to upgrade your selling that's
shopify.com
jbp a short-term emotional thing too
which is even worse because shortterm
matters hey I'll I'll tell you something
cool and interesting that's very
relevant to this and it's
terrifying so in the biological World
there are two reproductive strategies
you you can conceptualize it as a
Continuum and there are low investment
strategies and high investment
strategies so the low investment
strategies characterize animals Mo many
animals mosquitoes fish mosquitoes let's
talk about or fish they
there it's uh sex without commitment and
many many offspring right so a mosquito
doesn't invest in any of its children it
there's the sexual element fertilization
of many eggs like with
fish up to millions of Offspring let's
say in the case of of plants for example
puff balls I think produce billions of
of spores almost all of them die and
just enough survive to prop at the
species right so it's a low
investment high production strategy on
the other end you have animals that
reproduce slowly and invest a lot in
their offspring and human beings are the
most extreme example of that strategy so
we have very few Offspring and we
actually make a multi-generational
investment in them because it's not only
that you're a parent you're also a
grandparent and one of the explanations
for the human lifespan from The
evolutionary side is that we're we we
get as old as we get because there's
utility to having grandparents around so
anyways to have a child a human child
that
flourishes is requires an investment
that spans
decades okay so we're a high investment
species now imagine you took the same
logic and you looked within human beings
and you said well there's going to be
human beings that til more towards a
short-term investment strategy and
there's going to be human beings that
tilt more towards a long-term investment
strategy so the short-term investors
would be they'd be the hedonists Matt
they'd be the ones who are pursuing the
one night stand and that believe that
love is free and that every form of
sexual expression is acceptable and that
you should just do your own thing and
let it all hang out and they started to
what would you say March forward on mass
in the
1960s probably partly because birth
control made that a more viable uh
philosophy practically speaking okay so
then that so let's say you can identify
well let's start with men you can
identify men who have a short-term
mating strategy versus men who are high
investment now you might ask well what
are the characterological differences
between those men and this is where it
gets
fun the short-term oriented maters men
are Psychopathic
mellian narcissistic and sadistic so
isn't that fun so what that means for
women is that if women pursue men who
are oriented towards one night stands
let's say and casual casual sex they end
up delivering themselves to the dark
tetrad types the psychopathic
narcissistic Ma celan sadists now you
can say thing the same thing about women
is that women it's rarer for women to
adopt a short-term mating strategy
because sex is more costly for women
obviously they pay a higher emotional
price for short-term um pairings they're
more likely to mistake short-term
pairings for genuine emotional
commitment and they're much more likely
to be psychopathological if they adopt a
short-term strategy to M it independent
of that and so
so what we also see with the breakdown
of the family because that breakdown
facilitates short-term mating strategies
is that we see that the we see the
untrammeled rise of the psychopathic
narcissists and like I see that making
as a clinician I see that making itself
manifest in the hedonistic Pride
movement continually it's like we could
have sex with whoever we want whenever
we want under any conditions whatsoever
it's like okay who are you oh well we're
the psychopathic narcissists who never
grew up it's like oh those are you those
are the people marching in the streets
for their hedonistic sexual freedom and
we're going to turn the culture over to
them with their short-term
self-oriented pure emotional
gratification view of the world where
everything's about them now it's no
different than turning the world over to
the worst behaved 2-year-olds you could
possibly imagine and I mean that
technically too because all of that is a
sign of
radical failure to mature so isn't that
fun all that literature has basically
come out in the last four or five years
identifying the relationship between the
psychopathic narcissists and the
short-term mating
strategies brutal yeah and it it I was
just uh there was a clip that went viral
on Twitter I saw a day or two ago of
someone on some podcast a self self-
professed queer person uh saying that
talking about and he's HIV positive and
he was explaining why he doesn't think
he should have to divulge the fact that
he's HIV positive to any uh sexual
partners of his and basically the answer
is that like doesn't make you know it it
it's uncomfortable for him to talk about
it and he shouldn't have to do it and it
just it it kind of goes to show it's and
it's right and it's no it's no surprise
that this is a self-professed queer
person because on the LGBT activist side
it is entirely a celebration of the self
and pursuing your own desires at any
cost whatsoever to the point where now
you have uh LGBT activists some of them
anyway coming out and saying that you
know you should be able to pass along
HIV if you want to because it doesn't
matter what anyone else says one of my
one you know we talk about this and and
how it leads to fatherless homes and
everything else I think the other even
more catastrophic uh consequence is that
it it also leads to EV the decline in in
population because what ends up
happening I think is that people give up
on having kids and I think there's a lot
of people in my
generation that were raised by parents
like this uh either broken homes or
maybe both parents were there physically
but they were very self-centered and
just kind of miserable parents and so
then those children grow up and that's
the only example of Parenthood that they
have and so they associate being a
parent parent with just abject misery
and so then they um swear it off
entirely and I think that that we we see
that now I was just talking I on my
YouTube channel we I put up a video a
couple days ago of a I was went to the
Reddit it's called regretful parents
there's a Reddit Forum um it's a very
dark and disturbing place as you can
imagine and it's just nothing but
parents as the name implies parents who
had kids and regret it and now quite
openly hate their own children I mean
some of these I read a few of them and
it's you know mothers with 5-year-old
daughters expressing that they hate
their daughters um just for existing
because their their kids are infringing
on their lifestyle and making them do
things they don't want to do and then
you just think well when those kids grow
up because of course those kids know
that they're hated uh even if they can't
put put it into words and those kids
grow up and they're many of them are
probably going to say well if this is
what having kids is all about then I
don't want to do it they don't know any
other way and then you end up with
people that just swear off family life
entirely I think because of it well I I
think too Matt it's possible that that's
also what's manifesting itself in the
proclivity of young people not to date
and have
relationships you know if you're a
there's lots of young women out there
who've never seen anything remotely
resembling a positive male role model
and it's no bloody wonder that those
girls are attracted by the radical
leftist insistence that the patriarchy
is an oppressive monster you know if
you're it's interesting I read Rob
Henderson's book um unfortunately at the
moment I can't remember its name but Rob
ended up with a PhD in Psychology but he
came from the foster care system and his
foster parents were broken family types
and so were the families of all the
workingclass kids that he associated
with and it's perfectly possible now to
grow up as a girl and never encounter a
man who can commit to anything not to a
job not to a person not to his own
future right the the funny thing about
the hedonists is that they take
advantage of their future selves just as
badly as they take advantage of everyone
else and this is the problem with being
Guided by short-term emotional
gratification it's like a 2-year-old is
motivated by short-term gratification
emotional gratification but you don't
see them organizing themselves into
effective two-year-old societies and
planning for the future like to plan for
the future and to take everything
everyone else into account requires a
lot of socialization and maturation and
it requires a model and these girls that
don't have the model of positive
masculinity they assume that men are
there to do nothing but take short-term
sexual gratification and carry none of
the load it's no bloody Wonder they're
skeptical of the patriarchy and then
avoidant of men and it's no wonder that
they also see any claim of a man to
being competent and productive as just a
lie to mask his essential proclivity to
take advantage and and and
depart and so it is a cascading spiral
of failure and there's many communities
that are caught in that now I'll give
you an example of this it's weird Matt
so when I go do my lectures um my wife
does the introduction and then she does
the Q&A a and uh we didn't exactly plan
that um as we've been touring around
I've had different people open for me
Dave Rubin did for a while my daughter
Michaela did for a while I've had
various special guests Douglas Murray
for example who've done that at at one
point for the opening we were just doing
some advertising for this essay product
that my son is working on and for this
Peterson Academy that we've launched
this online university and Michaela when
she was introducing me was talking about
those Ventures and then she decided to
go pursue her own things and I asked my
wife if she would do the intros and she
said yes and so that's how that came
about and then she did the q&as and that
sort of branched into
her pursuing her own description of my
rules and so forth at the beginning of
the show okay so sorry for all the
detailed background but one of the
things that we found was that people
were very pleased to have her on stage
with me and so we were watching YouTube
comments for example when people were
viewing this and what we came to
understand was that a very large
proportion of the audience had never
seen a man and a woman sit down together
like a married couple sit down together
and actually do something productive and
useful and peaceful voluntarily together
so just this example Matt so when when
the audience asks
questions for the Q&A those are
submitted electronically and then Tammy
goes through them to see which ones are
upvoted but also to sort of string
together a coherent set of questions in
a conversation and so then she ask me
the
questions and then she actually listens
to the answers actively you know and
sometimes probes further and we were
stunned to find how much of a relief
that was for people just to see that it
was possible and that's so catastrophic
because it shows you the depth of misery
I suppose is a good way of thinking
about it that characterize so many
people's lives is that they're relief
relieved to see a display of genuine
cooperation between a committed man and
woman you know that's really sad it's
really
sad so a lot of these girls who are
susceptable to the blandishments of the
left it's not surprising in a sense when
you look at their
if you look at their autobiographical
background yeah I think for for the boys
too I it's you have girls that as you
say grow up and never have an example of
a male role model I think it's uh
probably even more disasterous for the
boys who grow up having never had that
example because you know for for a girl
that means that you know they're not
going to
know uh what to expect from men how to
interact with men they're not going to
trust men and so on but for boys it
means like they don't know how to be
what they are and uh that's one thing
myself as a father of uh four boys two
of them are still babies but two are are
a bit older now and you really notice
that as a father when you have sons that
they and that's why I think it's it's
it's people ask me sometimes like is it
harder to have boys or girls because we
have I've two two girls as well I think
uh you know there different
challenges with with both both sexes but
I think probably for a father it's in a
way harder to have a boys if you take it
seriously because there's more pressure
um I think as a father of
girls I think there's a little bit less
pressure on you but as boys you you
could just feel them watching you all
the time because they're looking to you
uh to figure out how they are supposed
to be in the world how they're supposed
to act they have all the boys have all
this kind of energy all of this uh just
you know just bursting at the seams with
with energy and all these this desire to
like I know with my boys that literally
they want to run out into the woods
every single moment of the day they
don't even want to be inside the house
they don't want to be contained at all
and so they have all of this and they're
looking at me as an example of how do
you how do you harness that what do you
do with that and uh so it's it's quite a
bit of pressure because I know that uh
if I give them the bad example um then
I've set them up for failure a big part
of it is this is this isn't all of it
but when you see I think when you see
these boys in the inner city that join
gangs and they they go out and and and
they they do you know not just in the
inner city but teenage boys can be known
to do things that are just absurdly
dangerous uh almost suicidal even if
they are not actually suicidal I think
it's because there's this masculine urge
for risk-taking and one of the most
important roles of a father I think is
to show a boy show a boy like how do you
take risks in a healthy way what are
what are healthy risks to take um and if
you don't have a father there to show
you how to do that to show you what that
means then you end up you know then you
have a a teenage boy who's drunk and
driving 105 miles an hour on a back road
somewhere um because that's that's his
way of of taking a risk he didn't have a
father to show him you know more
constructive ways of of taking
risks hey there truth Seekers and
freethinkers are you tired of the same
old merch that doesn't doesn't quite
capture your intellectual Spirit Well
buckle up because we've got some
exciting news that will make your
synapsis fire introducing the official
dailywire merch store on Sticker Mule
Sticker Mule isn't just any old merch
company they are the internet's favorite
place for custom stickers magnets and
More in response to the Trump
assassination attempt sticker mu's
co-founder and CEO vocalized his support
for the former president and called for
an end to political hate now they're
bringing you exclusive daily wire gear
that will make your liberal arts
Professor do a double take by shopping
at Sticker Mule / dailywire you're not
just getting awesome merch you're
supporting free speech and standing up
against leftist group thing plus a
portion of every sale goes directly to
support the daily wire so what are you
waiting for head over to stickermule.com
dailywire today that's stickermule.com
dailywire yeah well okay a couple of
things on that it's like boys are
definitely more difficult to socialize
than girls there's no doubt about that I
I'll say the tables will turn when your
daughters become teenag so be prepared
for that because they experience a whole
new form of exposure to risk then and
well so but boys are less agreeable than
girls and so they are more um
risk-taking and exploratory so for
example men and women differ within the
dimension of extraversion men are more
assertive and women are more
enthusiastic they're they're pretty
reliable sex differences in temperament
most of them seem biologically grounded
you can distinguish between men and
women with 75% accuracy on the basis of
Personality scales alone and if you
include interest because women are more
interested in people and men are more
interested in things on average you can
increase that diagnostic ability so
that's independent of any physiological
signs right just if you just knew
someone's personality and their
interests you can very reliably
categorize them in as men or there's no
evidence whatsoever that that's cultural
by the way because those differences get
bigger in more egalitarian societies
this is very well known by psychologists
even if they're afraid to talk about it
which they are so it is harder to
socialize boys and the way we socialize
them to take risks fundamentally as far
as I'm concerned is by encouraging them
to take
responsibility right and it it's it's a
time frame issue again is you want your
boys to be able to carry a maximum load
and there's Adventure in that but that
has to be a socialized Adventure so
let's delve into that a little bit how
long have you been
married uh almost 13 years okay why do
you like being
married oh wow uh well why not just look
you're a famous guy and you have a lot
of money and so in principle you could
have women at your disposal if you
wanted to go that route that's very very
common for celebrities and so I could
say to you look well you know why not
have your cake and eat it too you could
keep up the the appearance of your
marriage but you could be having plenty
of action on the side and I'm presuming
you're not doing that and I and if the
opportunity is there which it is now
because many men you know many men are
going to be monogamous or involuntarily
celibate because they don't have the
bloody opportunity so there's no
morality in that but now in a position
where you could well you could pretty
much do whatever the hell you wanted on
the sexual front and so why are you
committed to your marriage what's in it
for you well I would say yeah it's it's
interesting because there's an you know
you could say I have to say this if I'm
uh if I'm speaking publicly but it also
and maybe I do but it also happens to be
true that there is nothing about the
scenario that you just described that I
find even remotely appealing um the idea
the idea of uh being unfaithful to my
wife I find it's not even it's a horror
show when I think about it like every
aspect of that is a horror show okay
nothing about it I find even remotely
tempting okay why why is it a horror
show why is it a horror show when you
think about it well because you're
you're everything you're bringing into
your life is terrible you're bringing
lies and deception and betrayal into
your into your life uh I also happen to
love my wife very much and uh and as we
just talked about loving I believe is
willing the good of the other that is
that is very much not willing what is
good for her or my family um you every
part of it I I don't see any advantage I
don't see anything about it that's
appealing at all um and it's it's the
same if I were to imagine having never
been married at all um and being single
right now and then at least you don't
have the Betrayal and all of that but
that also I find incredibly unappealing
uh I I quite literally thank God every
day that I'm married I I I look at
people who aren't and um I feel sorry
for them especially especially men and
as you point out there are men who who
want to be they just don't have the
opportunity and I feel an immense amount
of sympathy for them um I would hate to
be in their position I don't want to I
don't want to lay it on them even
thicker if they're watching right now
but I just I I I feel for them um I'm
incredibly happy to be married all the
time and I guess the reason is
it's only it's only hard it's only
difficult to answer the question because
the reasons are really infinite in a lot
of ways but uh it brings it brings
meaning into my life every day that
wouldn't be there without it you know it
brings purpose uh there are people in my
life who I can love in a way that uh if
they weren't there I just wouldn't yeah
I could you know you could have friends
that you love you love your siblings and
your and your parents but especially
having experienced it now I know that
it's just a different kind of love that
I have for my own kids and my own wife
that if I didn't have them um I wouldn't
have any opportunity for that kind of
love either to give it or to receive it
and um as I said to to me not having
that is nothing but pure horror uh I I I
see no advantage of it right so you
outlined you outlined two Dimensions
there you said that you know if you took
the short-term mating strategy route
let's say that that would introduce all
sorts of deception and lies and betrayal
and Brokenness into your family so
that's sort of on the hell side and you
know when I used to counsil people who
were thinking about having an affair one
of the things I would do with them was
think it
through it's like so so what's your
fantasy here I see so you you found
someone new and you're having fun with
them and you find them very attractive
but they don't have to bear any
the responsibility for your
continued life together they get all the
fun and your wife who you're thinking
about cheating on she gets all the
responsibility and the burden and so now
you have this imaginary person that you
do nothing with but play with and that's
a person who's also willing to break up
a marriage so that's the sort of person
that you've Tangled yourself up in and
and what you're just going to keep this
secret so you're going to lie constantly
now about everything for the rest of
your life while you betray your wife and
you're going to pretend that there's
something positive in that for you and
your wife and your children that's the
game that you're going to play and often
not always but often when people started
to think it through you know they
changed their mind now and you also
talked about the positive side you know
when I worked my first job as a
professor was at har and my wife and I
moved down to Boston and we had our
second child there and uh Tammy stayed
home with the kids for a variety of
reasons one of which was that she didn't
have a green card there were other
reasons too because she wanted to be
with the kids and all I did was work and
spend time with my family that was it
you know I um because at that point in
my life it was necessary to cut out
everything that was extraneous if I was
going to be successful at those two
things but
there wasn't anything I ever found more
enjoyable than spending time with my
kids and my wife it was great and you
have a quality of love from your
children that you will not get anywhere
else in your life period and that's the
same the same is true if you are
actually in a committed relationship
with someone and the depth of that what
what I've been trying to lecture to
people young people around the world is
is that you find the meaning in your
life through adopting long-term
responsibility and you know your kids
are the only people you'll ever meet in
your life who want more than anything
else to have a good relationship with
you that's what they offer you and
that's such a gift I mean you alluded to
that it's such a gift and the thing is
too it's it's also something you know we
have a society that's searching for
meaning it's like having a committed
relationship with someone for 60 years
which is what you'll have with your kids
if you're fortunate that's actually
quite meaningful and then you have
grandkid too and that's
another source of Bountiful provision of
stability and responsibility and Love
and You Know conservatives have done a
very bad job of selling this to to young
people because they always take the
dutiful side and and pro pro what
portray it as an obligation and not an
opportunity and that's just ridiculous
and even on the sexual side so the
purely sexual side the people who have
the most sex are religious people in
long-term committed monogamous
relationships at least the heterosexual
people who have the most sex so that's
pretty interesting who the hell would
have guessed that and then you might
also contemplate for a moment the
difference between sex with love and sex
without love and sex without love
produces a fair bit of postcoidal regret
both on the side of the man and the
woman and that's a real symptom of just
exactly what the hell is going on which
is something like Mutual short-term
exploitation and then the realization of
that and sex with love that's a whole
different Enterprise they're not even in
the same universe and that's not
something that people speak about very
much but they should yeah I think and
highlighting the I I think you're right
that's uh and I say this as a
conservative commentator myself who
talks about these issues all the time
but you're correct that obviously we
have not
done um an entirely sufficient job of
making this point
uh and probably part of it is not
highlighting the positives enough and I
mean when it comes down to it isn't it's
it's an issue of happiness and I think
that you I think it's probably true and
maybe there's like rare exceptions very
rare exceptions but it's probably true
for almost everyone that you cannot be
happy you can't be truly happy alone I
mean no nobody can be truly happy
entirely alone and now most of us unless
you're on a desert island somewhere and
if you were on a desert island you would
go insane very very quickly actually
being that isolated um but most of but
we're not on desert island so none of us
are actually completely alone but I I
think it probably is true that the
closer you are to being
alone the more unhappy you will be and
the the farth the farthest you can get
from being alone is to have a spouse and
children now even
then you're you there's there's like a a
certain element of aloneness I guess
that just because we're human beings and
we have our own minds um you know we we
in in a certain way there's always going
to be that there's going to be a certain
feeling of like isolation I think that
we're all capable of feeling no matter
how many people you surround yourself
with but um as far as you can get from
Al loone is to
have have a spouse and have children and
so and so that doesn't mean now there
are plenty of people that that that have
kids and are miserably unhappy I just
talked about the regretful parents in
the Reddit form
so I think it's more accurate to say
that if you have a f if you have a
spouse and you have children you have
the opportunity for the greatest
happiness that's available to human
beings now you have to take advantage of
that opportunity but um it's it's not
necessarily going to be automatic but
you have the opportunity for it I think
about um there's a a movie called into
the wild about Chris mandas who was a a
guy who left everything behind I think
this was back in the 90s and burned his
credit cards burned his license and his
social security card and just went off
into the Alaskan Wilderness by himself
uh left Society entirely behind and then
he was when he was up in the wilderness
he uh he ended up eating a poison Berry
accidentally and he died out up up in
the wilderness by himself and in the
margins of his notebook before he died
he wrote he wrote something like uh
happiness isn't real unless it's sh
shared and and I think that that's I
think that's true and he learned it he
he learned it the hard way he learned it
the hardest way you could possibly learn
a lesson like that but
um there is no happiness unless unless
you're you're sharing it I feel this you
know I I travel a lot for my job as I
know you do and people ask say to me all
the time well it must be nice so you get
to go out and travel and see the world
and you're you know you you get a break
from the wife and
kids and the truth is that when I'm
traveling you know I'm going to do a job
even if I'm in a really cool place I
don't go do a lot of sightseeing and in
the on the few occasions when I do get
out and do something kind of fun on my
own it's just it's not that fun anymore
because I don't have all I can think to
myself is well wish had my kids here I
wish I had my wife here to see this
because they they would really enjoy it
and because I can't share that moment
with them uh you know it's nice but it's
just lacking a certain quality um that
it could otherwise have so our whole
culture in so far as our culture is
judeo-christian and it's particularly
emphasized on the Christian side our
whole culture is predicated on the idea
of
sacrifice right that's why we have the
crucifixion at the center of our culture
as a symbol it's a sacrificial symbol
and you're pointing to why it's like you
you find the meaning in your life in the
sacrifice of your Solitude and your
narrow self to the Future and to the
broader community and it really is in
that where we find not only our
happiness map which you pointed to so
our hope for the future let's say our
enus enthusiasm and our courage we also
find our riskit from anxiety there's no
difference between being self-conscious
and being anxious they're statistically
indistinguishable from one another the
more you think about yourself the more
miserable you are and so it is the case
and human beings are so deeply social
that we can punish Psychopathic
Predators by putting them in isolation
just think about that what that means
for how social people are you can take
the worst people the most predatory
people the repeat violent offenders who
can't regulate themselves at all who act
like they hate everyone and are and do
nothing but pray and if you put them in
solitary they find that torturous that's
how social human beings are you know in
your observation that you only find
realistic meaning in communal experience
it's like I feel the same way when I'm
traveling I mean I take my wife along
and we often have family members and
Friends Along and that makes a huge
difference but I'm just not that
interested in having fun without my wife
mostly because it's just not that fun
you know I'm not to for Christ's sake
I'm not searching for immediate
gratification it's shallow and we have a
crisis of meaning in our society and it
is because people don't understand the
relationship between responsibility like
long-term committed responsibility and
meaning that's where all of it is to be
found and that's even true as you get
older like like I can't imagine what my
life would be like now if I didn't have
my kids and my grandkids and my wife
like what the hell what am I going to be
doing something trivial and pointless to
while away the time it's so dull and dry
there's no depth in it at all and like
conservatives have done a terrible job
of showing young people that commitment
and meaning are the same thing it's so
interesting to watch this because I've
noticed when I lecture that whenever I
draw a relationship between
responsibility and meaning the audience
always goes dead silent because no one's
made that case least of all the
conservatives who are always on about
Duty and you know you did a much better
job today than the typical conservative
let's say in highlighting what you find
so spectacularly positive about having a
family you know it also does a lot for
your
genuine regard for s you know because if
you can view yourself as somebody
who's reliable and committed in the face
of all of life's catastrophes and that
you can keep your word across time then
you're not some miserable cringing milk
soop of a thing that's blowing in the
wind and crushed by every one of life's
minor tragedies right you're trying to
live out a pattern of someone who can
take a fair bit of battering and still
Prevail and be a model of that sort to
your kids which they look to you for
part of the reason your boys torture you
and push you is to find out what you're
made of your wife does the same thing
and you know maybe you can find out that
you're made of more than you think if
you are willing to put a little
committed effort into the situation
so let's turn to the move sorry go ahead
M I was gonna say that's uh that's an
interesting point because I was thinking
about it the other day that um I agree
with what you said at the beginning of
the conversation that you
you're not you don't really grow up
until you have until you get married and
have kids I certainly see that in my own
life and I didn't I got I got married
when I was 25 had kids when I was or
first set of twins when I was 26 uh and
I and I look so I look at my life up to
the age of 25 and um I see all of that
as basically childhood I don't I look at
myself at 22 and I don't it's like I
might as well have been 12 uh in a in a
lot of ways um because for me adulthood
started once I was actually uh a husband
and then a father and I think and also
for me even it's interesting because I I
in in in the culture we're always told
that having a family is going to prevent
you from being financially successful um
because it's an extra financial burden
and it is true there's more it is more
of a financial burden quote unquote if
you want to put it that way but it
hasn't been my experience that it
prevents success in fact I didn't my own
career didn't really take off until the
moment when I had kids and I could
almost there's almost like a starting
point right there and I could draw a
line going up from that moment and I
think part of the reason for all of that
is that um to the point you just made
that I really started to take
myself a lot more seriously when I was a
husband and a father I mean I had the
responsibility to care for my family but
I also just started to see myself as a
grown man in the world um and take
myself a lot more seriously and I think
that that especially as a man that's one
one of the prerequisites to you know
being successful is to is to see
yourself as a serious person which I
think a lot of young men probably don't
see themselves that way and then and
then as a consequence the world doesn't
see them way you're probably not a
serious person until it's about more
than you and that means you don't bring
Grim seriousness of intent to your
Pursuits and the developmental
literature is very clear on this like
most young men are quite proplate and
hedonistic let's say with regard to
their consumption of
alcohol and why well because it's fun
you know we like to think that people
drink to drink away their misery and
there is some truth to that because it
is a good respit from anxiety but mostly
people drink to party and have a good
time which means to engage in hedonistic
stupidity of various forms and the
reason that people do that is obvious
it's they do that because the substances
like alcohol that people use are
physiologic I Ally rewarding they
activate the dopaminergic systems that's
the same system that's activated when
you're pursuing a worthwhile goal the
real question is well why not just drink
and use cocaine all the goddamn time and
the answer to that that people usually
come up with around the age you did is
that they take on responsibility and
decide that that's actually more
worthwhile and so then young men do
start to take themselves seriously into
work and then doesn't matter that
they're burdened by the obligations of a
family because that's actually something
that becomes motivating and so it's not
a burden it's an opportunity to mature
and to show that you're capable of a
hell of a lot more than you thought you
were if you just sto doing all the
stupid things that were interfering with
your life and so what's the consequence
what has been the consequence for you
personally in taking on that additional
responsibility you know you said you
regard yourself as a child or an
overgrown teenager until you got married
so
what has been the consequence for you of
starting to take your own life with some
degree of mature seriousness well the
consequence for me has been uh has been
entirely positive I mean it's it's you
know I say
that there's a starting point from when
I had kids to now and I can draw almost
like a not a straight line up but you
can see the incline um from there and
it's not it's not quite as simple as
that but
um I I I can trace all whatever success
I've had in life uh you know
both career-wise financially pretty
spiritually pretty much in every sense I
can I I can start it there from um from
starting a
family and realizing
that you know all everything I'm doing
really matters because it's it's not
just for me I guess that was a big part
of the problem when I you know I can I
can think back I I moved out house when
I was 20 years old um so not not too
early but also urly compared to a lot of
people these days I moved out when I was
20 got married when I was 25 so there's
about there almost exactly five years in
between when I was living on my own but
I wasn't but I was single I wasn't
married and uh yeah and there was you
know there was an opportunity for a lot
of the partying and all the proplate uh
stuff that you talk about there's some
of that but I remember mainly as a time
of just it was a very miserable time I
was not happy
um and I think it's because like I
didn't say I had a job I was I was
working at the job I was trying to
advance in my career but then I come
home to this empty apartment and there's
just nobody there and it doesn't really
matter to anyone else what I do or
whether I succeed at all and uh and I
found that to
be quite burdensome it was much more B
much more burdensome than having a
family they having a family actually
lifts that burden um because coming home
and just knowing that it's like it
doesn't it literally would it's like it
doesn't matter to anyone in the world
really except except for my parents um
and they're not as invested in it as say
your kids and your your wife will be uh
it just doesn't matter to anyone whether
I'm successful and uh I just found it
you know maybe there's a way to push
through that maybe there's a way I mean
there are people I don't think so no I
don't think so I don't believe it
because why like what's the point and
that and that's very important because
there's lots of suffering in life and so
if there isn't a point man good good
luck to you and the point seems to be in
something like the adoption of maximal
responsibility like that that's the
that's the that's the story of all our
great adventure stories our great
romantic adventure stories the hero is
always the person who takes on maximal
responsibility
always right like Frodo to destroy the
ring of power well there's a maximal
responsibility he fleshes out his whole
character in the course of his quest so
that he can contend with the allseeing
eye of the totalitarian state and the
terrible burden of power no one there's
a reason those stories Echo I guess the
the only uh caveat I would I would make
here is that I think in some cases it is
possible to have a a happy and
successful
life where where you have
responsibilities or fulfilling your
responsibilities have a sense of purpose
and meaning it is possible to have that
um and to to not get married and not
have kids uh there are some people that
I believe are called to to uh forgo that
but in those cases that means and if
we're talking about a man that means
that they're going to find another
outlet for this kind of paternal as a
man I think we're all called to some
kind of paternal service in the world
and uh for most men that means having
kids and if you can't have kids it means
adopting that's going to be most men uh
there there are going to be some men
though small minority who aren't aren't
called to that and so they find some but
you have to find some other way to kind
of act as a father in the world and you
know as a Catholic I would say one of
the one of the best examples that maybe
you're called to the religious life
maybe you're called to be a priest or a
monk um that certainly can be a very
happy and joyful life and but but that
is also it's like you're not just
working some job and trying to make a
lot of money for yourself and then
coming home to your Empty Apartment uh
you we call a priest father so you are a
father in a different sense in a
spiritual sense so there is that but I
think the point is that you can't
discard that entirely and say I don't
want to be in service to anyone I don't
want to be a father in any sense of the
term at all I don't want to have anyone
depending on me at all and I just want
to focus on myself and have
fun if that's your mentality there's
just no way to be truly happy um except
in the mo except in those fleeting
moments that you talk about get more and
more desperate to pursue those fleeting
moments too that's the cataclysmic abyss
of Hedonism because those those will
also get more and more rare the more you
pursue them you know I talked to Joo
willink Joo wanted to be a Mayhem
Distributing solder from the time he was
about three and you can tell that by
just looking at him cuz he's such a
monster you know and and he I imagine he
was a boy that was quite difficult to
socialize right cuz there are lots of
boys who are well 5% of boys kick hit
bite and
steal at the age of two very few girls
by the way but about 5% of boys most of
those boys are socialized by the age of
four by the way and most of the people
who are miserable with their kids have
no idea how to discipline them right so
they're it's like they have they're not
living with three kids they're living
with three
unhoused stupid attack dogs and it's no
bloody wonder that they're miserable
because they're too fragmented and
clueless and poorly educated and
undisciplined to have any understanding
at all what it means to bring your
children under some sort of acceptable
social order and so that's a complete
catastrophe I mean it's it's obviously
the case that disregulated social
relationships can make your life hell
but that doesn't mean as you pointed out
that that's implicitly the case because
you don't have to let your children run
rough shot over you doesn't take that
much Jesus how much discipline does it
take for a grown man to bring a
three-year-old into alignment I mean
he's three you can probably take him
both psychologically and physically and
if you can't well then you're a coward
fundamentally or you've had very bad
models um in any case Joo when he went
off to to be uh the Special Forces
character that he developed into
discovered very quickly that he really
liked mentoring and that that was way
better than just what would you say
living for the sake of adventurous
Mayhem and you know that was a real
profound realization on his part that
there wasn't anything better he could
find to do with his life his like
monstrous Viking Life easily could have
been a criminal right taken that pathway
because he's got that aggressive
temperament he found that there was
nothing better that he could find than
to Mentor young men and to that's to
adopt that paternal role there was deep
source of meaning in that that's the
spirit of the patriarch that's
celebrated in the biblical stories it's
part of the man manifestation of the
spirit of the god of Isaiah and Abraham
that long-term paternal Focus that's
committed and the opposite of idiot
Hedonism and pride so which is
celebrated for months now on our society
at a time so Matt let's take a turn to
your movie do you want to walk people
through that a bit I saw it by the way
and it looks to me like you'll have the
same kind of radical success with it
that you did with what is a woman you've
got this every man quality about you you
know you and you I think it's true by
the way I mean there is some of that
about you but you also do a good job of
being a naive investigator into the
crazy world of ideological possession do
you want to walk us through the movie a
little
bit sure um yeah you know we
we decided we of course we had what as
woman and uh and it was very successful
for us and and we're thinking about you
know this is going back two years ago
thinking about um what what what topic
do we want to tackle next and how to
tackle it and for me it was very clear I
wanted to get into we talked about you
know we did the movie we we investigated
gender broadly
speaking um race
is the other big one
culturally and so I knew I wanted to
investigate
that um the question was like how do you
approach it and with what is woman I
mean the the strategy is right there in
the title is just this this one basic
question that the whole thing hinges on
um now with with race it's not not quite
like that there isn't one there's a lot
of questions there's not one basic one
uh um it's just a different it's a
different beast in a lot of
ways and so uh and we also didn't want
to repeat just uh the you know we didn't
want to do what is a woman but with race
so at this time we thought it'd be
interesting to take a different approach
and that is to
start uh as the clueless naive
investigator asking
questions the only difference here is
that whereas with what is a woman I was
kind of a blank slate the whole way
through just asking questions not not
having any real like position on it
myself in the film until the very very
end um in this one we thought well okay
well what if what if uh I start by
asking
questions and rather than remaining a
blank slate and remaining skeptical I
I'll just believe whatever I'm told uh
so they'll give me an answer and I'll
accept that and then I'll let that
answer lead me to the next place
um and that's that's the strategy we
took with with this and it kind of takes
us and we really did approach it in in
filming this way so that we had a really
broad outline of what what where we
wanted to go with the film and where we
wanted to end up but you can't really
script it out because we go to talk to
someone we don't know exactly what
they're going to say or how it's going
to go and so this is why filming it was
over a year was a long process because
we kind of let we let the story guide
us and uh went down the rabbit hole that
way and in the process um because I'm
kind of believing what these anti-racist
Dei people are telling me
and and sort of adopting their views and
trying to trying to put them into
practice so that was the that was the
goals
to not just ask them about it but to
take what they say put it into practice
on screen so that people can see it and
um so it's a much more direct I think
way of kind of sterzing these ideas
maybe even than we did in what as a
woman you got Dei certified okay so a
couple of comments so you adopt a
Persona you've got a man bun I've got a
hint for you if you ever do this again
is you have to learn to upt talk at the
end of your sentences you have to make
every sentence into something that
sounds like a question because your
voice gives you away because you've got
this flat authoritative voice like you
just make declarative statements there's
no question in them and one of the
things you'll notice about the the Dei
types this is very telling is that they
always end every sentence with an upt
talk it's it's a form of
validation seeking and you're Bel lied
by your authoritative voice as a Dei man
bun specialist and so you might want to
give that some consideration when you're
trying to pass for one of the people who
you're investigating anyways you went
got Dei certification so I'm kind of
wondering if that might be handy for you
to re-educate me and so and also since I
seem to be uh destined now to being
re-educated by Dei specialists um you
took that training what the hell was
that
like uh well it was very easy it turns
out um lit literally anyone can get Dei
certified is what we discovered uh
because there's no it's it's not like
there's some official process uh it's
not like you know there's it's not like
becoming a certified to be a plumber and
electrician you know it's not anything
like that it's not a real profession
it's not a real thing
[Music]
so anyone anyone can uh get certified
anyone can declare themselves an expert
is what we discovered and how long did
take you how long did it take
you the actual process of getting
certified yeah yeah I don't know 30
minutes maybe so you mean I could go get
Dei certified and then I could present
that to the Ontario College of
psychologists as evidence for my
successful
re-education you absolutely could and
should I mean I could give you I don't
the website in front of me there's a
certain website we went to to get our to
get our certification and I'd happy to
pass it along to you I think you
absolutely should do that oh it do I
don't know
if yeah it it it opens up a lot of doors
we we found and um you know even aside
from the the certification It's really
because you're right that that's that's
kind of one of like the meta jokes in
the movie that yeah I'm like wearing a
costume but it's not that convincing
it's it's really just a man bun I don't
even shave my beard we talked about we
talked about yeah in in the in the
process of of making the film we we we
thought that it'd be very difficult to
get in the room with these people if all
I'm wearing is a wig because I am I do
have a pretty distinct look and sound
and so the idea was floated well maybe I
shave the beard that would be a pretty
drastic change of my look that that was
a no-go for me I'm not going to do that
there are some things I'm just not
willing to do um but what we found is
that it actually didn't it didn't matter
because even the wig probably didn't
matter that much all they want to know
is that you are repeat there's certain
just buzzword and phrases that if you
repeat them back to these people uh they
will accept you as part of the tribe and
they're not going to be very skeptical
about it we it was the same thing we
were making what is a woman we got in
the room with a lot of these types in
the gender space and there was no
disguise at all in that
case um and the way we did it was just
all you have to they're just looking for
the the key words and um if you if they
think that you part of the tribe then
they drop all the defenses and they'll
sit in the room with you and I think
part in both those those cases part of
the reason why it was so easy uh may not
be so easy for anyone who tries to do it
again now after we made both these
movies but it was easy at the time
because all of these people live in a in
a bubble um they live in a world where
they're they're never challenged on
their beliefs they're never even around
anyone who would disagree with them so I
think for
them uh the idea that they might be
interviewed by someone who fundamentally
disagrees with them was really just like
Unthinkable they never even considered
the possibility because they're never
even around those kinds of people um and
we we really kind of punctured that
bubble I guess in making the so the most
surprising thing to me and I don't want
to be speaking out of turn here was the
fact that you got to talk to Robin
dangelo
and Robin dangelo famously is the author
of um white fragility which is really
one of the most Dispicable books I would
say that's ever been written and I think
she also fits into that category as a
thinker and likely as a human being and
um is it reasonable for you to talk a
little bit about that I don't know how
you managed that
and I don't want to blow punch line
but yeah I think there's most of the
content of that of that exchange with
her I think they don't want me to talk
about at this point and give away the
spoilers okay okay that that that
conversation does go to a place that's
um maybe will be unexpected for a lot of
people but um the fact that she's in the
movie is no secret we have her in the
trailer and right uh and that that kind
of goes what I what I just said that I
think for her she she's probably the
prime example of this because you would
think if you didn't know any better you
would think it'd be difficult to get
Robin D'Angelo into a room um and that
she'd be looking out for anyone who
maybe who who maybe isn't her in her
tribe she'd be looking out for this kind
of for example because you know you
might you might suggest that possibly
Robin D'Angelo if she was even vaguely
informed about absolutely anything that
she purports to be doing would know who
the hell you
are right you would think but yeah
apparently not because because I I think
she's probably the prime example of this
of someone who I in her day-to-day life
she probably almost never even interacts
with or speaks to anyone who is not um
as far to the left as she is on all
these issues or at least almost as far
uh that's that's just the world that
she's in and so when I'm sitting across
the room with her having a conversation
I mean it's probably the first time in
years if not ever that she has in this
case unwittingly but has found herself
sitting in a room with someone who
fundamentally disagrees with her um
about almost
everything and uh and I don't know these
these academic leftist types that's the
kind of bubble they're in for a lot of
us we we you know for me obviously
because I am conservative and uh you
know my family's conservative and I work
here at the daily wire most of the
people that I'm around are conservative
but you know I interact with people that
are farle all the time it's um it would
be a lot more difficult for someone on
the left to do to me what we did to
Robin D'Angelo because I'm aware that
these people are out there I know who
they are I'm looking out for that kind
of thing it'd be a hard it'd be hard for
them to pull off um because I'm just not
in the same kind of bubble I guess that
she is so two two more questions about
the movie um what did you learn as a
consequence of doing it and why should
people go see it as far as you're
concerned I think there are there are
several things maybe maybe the main
thing that I learned and I don't know if
it's
learn so much as had Illustrated for
me
um but the extent to
which a lot of people that fall for this
you know there's the there are the
people that push it the robin D'Angelo
types uh the women who run the race to
dinner who we have in the film oh yes
that's Sarah ra yeah Sarah raal yeah the
DI she's the worst person on Twitter
which is really
or arguably the worst she every single
thing that that woman does
is self-serving and malevolent to the
bloody core she is a real
Miracle toally she runs those dinners
where the white women pay to be
humiliated by two unbelievably
narcissistic Psychopaths so that they
can feel good about themselves without
actually having to do any moral e having
to put in any of the moral effort
exactly exactly and that's and that's
the thing so those types of people the
people that are running the show you
know that's one thing and I don't know
how much they even believe a lot of what
they're
saying I don't think they believe all of
it
certainly um and there's not a lot to be
learned about them I think that they're
kind of you they're grifters they're con
artists uh they're making a lot of money
on this stuff that's that's a a big part
of the motivation it's not very
complicated
um but what's more interesting to me are
the it's like the women who would sit
around that table who are paying money
to be there or the people that would
that would willingly attend one of these
seminars that we have in the film people
that would willingly read Robin
D'Angelo's book I've always I'm more
interested in them like what what's
going on with them and what I found
making the film is that uh you really
can't
overstate the guilt that these people
are walking around with what white guilt
white Guild is a very real phenomenon
and I knew that making the movie but
having it Illustrated so profoundly was
still pretty enlightening to me uh that
a lot of these people are just they're
they're walking around with a lot of
guilt and uh for someone for like a a a
sane rational white person like myself
and you it's it can be kind it's it's
hard to understand because I I've never
spent any time feeling guilty about
slavery or Jim Crow I had nothing to do
with it I it's it's it's just it's I've
never spent any time feeling guilty
about it at at all and so it's hard for
us to understand people who are over not
not only have they felt guilt about it
but they're overcome with guilt by this
kind of
thing and um yeah I guess how much of
that is that how much of that though too
is that they want to Signal how overcome
by guilt they are so that they look like
hyperoral agents you know it's like I
see the same thing with mothers in
particular who brandish their trans
children like their a flag of Pride it's
like oh look at how upset and Confused
my child is and yet I'm still wonderful
enough to love them no matter what you
know it's a really malevolent game and
that parading your self- flatulation as
a indication of the profundity of your
guilt that's a pretty bloody ugly game
too now you know I understand that
there's a fair bit of genuine moral
confusion mixed in there but the
self-serving in public you notice that
those women go to those dinners in
groups it's not Sarah Roo and her
pathological partner with one woman they
have to do that in groups so they they
can signal to each other the depths of
their moral
virtue yeah I think that that's that's
certainly right there's a certain amount
of virtue signaling that goes into it
for sure um but if you're in you know
the race to dinner just using that again
as an example and that's you know that's
seven or eight minutes in the movie but
in real life of course you're making a
movie uh
the especially movie like this they take
a lot longer to film and that was really
two hours I mean that that dinner went
on for two hours and you can see these
women sitting around at this
table at various points crying uh
seemingly very much overcome with
emotion talking about their racism that
they feel you know and given
opportunities to talk about examples of
when they're when they committed racist
acts and then they share their examples
and it's like none of the examples they
give our actual
racism and yeah again some of that is
them just showing off but I do think
that at the core of it there is real
guilt here and my own and we could spend
another two hours psychoanalyzing this
but I think my own theory about how they
can feel this guilt is that uh it's a
it's a replacement for religion I mean
these are almost all of them are
irreligious people even if they would
call themselves Christians they're not
really and um and you know traditionally
religion has given us an answer for
guilt because we all do now I don't feel
any I don't feel any racial I don't feel
any white guilt but I do feel guilt I I
do experience guilt uh for things that I
do that are wrong if I commit sins I
feel guilty about them but then I turn
to my faith and that gives me an answer
for number one why I feel that guilt
what that guilt is from and then what to
do with it what do I do about it about
that guilt um and I can turn to my faith
and get an answer to all of that but if
you take religion out of it well now
you've still got people that are sinning
that are doing evil acts and so they're
still going to feel the guilt because of
it but they don't have a way of
understanding that guilt they don't have
any way of interpreting it and so they
look around for someone to tell them
what to do with the guilt and then these
race Hustlers are there and and they'll
tell you oh I'll tell you why you feel
guilty it's because of this yeah that's
a good analysis I think that's a big
part of it well I think that's a good
analysis I mean look when you were a
somewhat propagate 24y old you needed to
channel the meaningless and
meaninglessness and the guilt that was
associated with your unmowed life into
something that was properly sacrificial
and you got married and you had kids and
that that provides a pathway you know
that where you can discharge your moral
duty that's the thing is that if you're
it's necessary for human beings to
discharge their moral duty with
otherwise they'll be overwhelmed by
feelings of inadequacy and and self
deprecation and that's because we are
communal and social creatures and we
have to live in relationship to other
people and if we don't do that we
violate our deepest instincts or our
most Divine calling you know and as you
said for the typical person you find
that experation of your
self-centeredness in responsibility to
your wife like long-term committed
responsibility and to your kids and your
grand kids and to that multigenerational
endeavor and if we didn't have that
propensity for Guilt we wouldn't be
social the way that we are and it can be
exploited by the sadistic narcissistic
histrionic Psychopaths and the women who
run that race to dinner are great
examples of that man there's something
to watch and hey let me let me ask you
one more question Matt um I don't think
I could do what you did and I wonder
what that points to in in terms of the
difference between our temperament you
know that room that you were in with all
those uh people that what the hell were
they there for um you're in a group of
people and they they kind of figure out
that you are in fact a conservative
interloper what what was that what was
that
scene why are
you yeah that was a uh that was a group
kind of a seminar for people for white
people that are struggling with uh their
their grief their white grief over their
privilege and so if you're a white
person with white privilege and you're
grieving Your Privilege it's a support
group for that uh that was that was kind
of where we started the film right now
you see I I would have a very difficult
time doing that
because for me to produce that kind of
interpersonal tension in a group like I
find that extremely discomforting and
I'm not proclaiming this as a virtue by
any stretch of the imagination I would
say that that is
a v that I've had to learn to control
because if you're too much like that you
can't say things that need to be said
because you're too up concerned with you
know causing emotional distress in the
moment but you seem to be able to
tolerate a lot of that and I'm wondering
like how do you how did you actually
feel in that situation where all these
people were displaying signs of
discomfort and you were being unmasked
and and why are you willing like I want
to know how you feel about that what
what kind of emotional state it produces
but also why you're willing to to do
it uh in the
moment uh it's extremely uncomfortable
and not not fun um as you can imagine
like it's not it's not an enjoyable
experience to be just to be in that room
to begin with even if I was standing off
on the in the corner watching I'd find
to be quite
miserable and that's the case with with
most of the the scenes in this movie and
in the last movie uh be just be being in
rooms that are it's it's I wouldn't
choose recreationally to be in those
rooms with those people um it of course
it goes against I am a human being and
so it does go against our kind of in our
wiring to intentionally say and do
things that are going to create more
tension and are going to bring attention
to you in a very negative way like
that's I don't think anyone is wired to
do that at least I'm not um so in the
moment it's I can't say that it's very
enjoyable but
um we are the fact that we're making a a
film and we're making a film and we're
trying to tell a story and we're we're
attempting to reveal something in in a
humorous comedic way but so I just have
that ever present in my mind and so I'm
willing to do it to be in those rooms
and to cause these extremely
uncomfortable
situations um because because we're
we're we are telling a story and uh and
in both of these films this one in
particular but even the last one
um I I do look at it like we we're we're
exploring an issue you know we're
investigating an issue an important
issue but even before that I look at it
as a film so it is a story we are we are
telling we're storytellers we are
telling a story and uh and so to me when
we're making the movie it's like that
comes first it's like what what do we
need what do we need for the scene what
do we need for the
story here's what we need for it and I'm
just going to go in and get it uh no
matter what and that's all that matters
like turn the cameras on let's roll let
me go get what we need for this
scene I don't care how uncomfortable I
feel we're g to get it and uh because
that that's what matters for this and so
I guess it's just like I probably feel
similar to how you would feel but I see
okay okay suppress it best to the best
that I can well you could contrast that
I would say with the attitude of let's
say Sarah
r with that underlying histrionic
narcissistic sadism because I think that
she takes positive Delight in all the
misery that she produces at those
dinners she's not uncomfortable at all
and and then you might say well how do
you justify that to yourself is you
think these contemptible fools get
exactly what they deserve and if they're
stupid enough to let me pray on them
then I'm not going to be weak enough to
have any sympathy for them in fact quite
the contrary and that's really the
attitude of the true sadist you know I
talked to a woman a week and a half ago
whose father was the founder of the
Church of Satan and she was very
involved in that
until well until she figured out that
her dad was
a like he was the evil clown at the town
circus you know and it took her a long
time to sort that out but like so many
predatory types his attitude was if
you're stupid enough to fall for my
nonsense then you deserve every horrible
thing that can possibly come your way
and you know that's definitely the
attitude that someone like Sarah riy
takes is that if these fools will let me
fleece them then they're the Sheep who
deserve to have their wool taken and
that it's a very it's a very very
predatory predatory and malevolent
orientation towards the world and
there's so much of that in the radical
leftist world you know I used to go
these protest that used to spring up
around me especially when I was stupid
enough to go talk to University students
um I'd see all these women all these
women in the audience these young women
in their little groups braying out their
idiot cliches and that was pretty toxic
and and awful but what was even worse
the predatory men that were in their
group trying to be their friends so that
they could connive them into bed with
their you know claims of allyship a
level of narcissistic malevolent
predatory psychopathy that once you have
the eye to see can't be unseen and so
it's a terrible thing to watch so many
confused people who've come from Des
devastated families fall prey to the
psychopathic machinations of the radical
leftist grifters and you did a lovely
job in the movie of exposing that I
think and I imagine it'll be quite
successful how many theaters do you know
that you're opening in that the the
final numers to be determined but I know
we're in we're in hundreds now and
they're uh adding more theaters every
day because the pre-sales at this point
are really strong so we're grateful for
that um uh you know I feel I feel
optimistic about it it's obviously for
the daily wire it's the first time we've
put a movie in theaters it's uh we're
not the first of course we're not the
first conservatives to put a movie in
theaters but it is still a relatively
rare thing um to have conservatives
competing in that particular
Arena and there's always a risk involved
because but the risk is
also the the whole reason it's worth
doing is that there's a there's a we are
in an arena where there's an actual
scoreboard um which is the box office
and you can't argue with box office
either it's successful or it isn't
uh but I think if conservatives want to
have if we're serious about taking back
the culture and getting involved in
entertainment and all these things then
you got to get out of the kind of
conservative ghettos and go into these
places where there is a scoreboard and
you could be judged based on that and if
you're successful then nobody can deny
it if you're not then you know it's an
embarrassing embarrassing you take the
hit but you got to be willing to take
that risk and uh so there's a risk
involved but I also think um
we talked earlier about taking smart
risks and I think this is a smart risk
because I I I believe it's a
entertaining movie it's a movie that's
hitting at exactly the right time for
the culture and um and I I think the
audience will rally around it uh both
because of the message but also because
it's just entertaining and uh so I I
feel cautiously optimistic about where
it's headed yeah entertaining in a slow
prolonged slow motion train wreck sort
of way exactly exactly yeah so it comes
out tell us again when it comes out am I
a racist when it comes out it comes out
September 13th is when it'll be
available uh in theaters to watch but
again you can go to um mist.com to pre
pre-order the tickets and I know I never
pre-order tickets in my life up till now
um it's not something people usually do
but uh it is important for the success
of this film to pre-order them so
mist.com is you can get the tickets now
all right Matt well good luck with your
movie um you seem to have a real uh
knack
for delving into complex social issues
at a very explicable level and also to
time doing that spectacularly well and
it seems like am a racist fits that
pattern and so well good luck with the
your theatrical release and I presume
we'll get a chance to talk about what
happened at at some point in the not so
distant future for everybody watching
and listening I'm going to talk to Matt
for another half an hour I think I'm
going to delve into a little bit about
the development of his career he pointed
out on this YouTube interview that you
know once he adopted something
approximating adult seriousness with
regard to his life and was fortunate
enough to find a woman who could put up
with him that he transformed the way
that he was approaching things and I
want to I want to walk I want to analyze
that in a little bit more depth so you
could join join us on the daily wire
side for that and that's exactly what
we're going to do thank you very much
sir uh it was good talking to you as it
always is and uh as I mentioned uh best
wishes on the success of your movie
thank you I appreciate it
[Music]